# ADAS
 The main objective of the Adavanced Driver Assitance System is to resolve traffic problems and minimize the number of accidents on the road. We have presented a advanced driver assistance system which is compact, autonomous and fully functional smart car.  This system is built to sense any obstacle in its path, to avoid it and resume its running involving the pre-computation of an obstacle free path.  Driver can sometimes fail to see the car approaching rapidly from behind or in the blind spot, especially in heavy traffic on multilane freeways or highways and in urban traffic as well. The Adavnced Driver Assistance System can monitor this area and take much of the strain off the driver and avoid hazardous situations. We have used Ultrasonic sensors to implement a real-time obstacle avoidance system, so that the car can continually detect surroundings, avoid obstacles, and move toward the area where there are no obstacles.  We use an Arduino UNO with a Motor Driver along with DC Motors to make the car, and for sensing we incorporate an Ultrasonic Sensor which accurately and efficiently detects any obstacles in the car’s path. The Arduino is coded such that the car stops when an obstacle arises in front of it and check for other lanes. If there are no obstacles in the other lane then the car changes the lane.  Throughout the construction of this model, we learnt the Arduino coding language, the Motor Driver functionality, and the working of an ultrasonic sensor and its features. In conclusion, through this project, we aim to construct a model of a advanced driver assistance system that is beneficial to the driver to take particular safe action when an obstacle appears in front which can avoid accidents. 
